UX-DESIGN.md, before:


<h1 align="center">Bayt UX Design</h1>

# Prototype
The Figma prototype link for the Bayt app is <a align="center" href="https://www.figma.com/proto/rs9sNV0nIGotnT7L5qq2jz/Bayt?node-id=14%3A2&scaling=scale-down&page-id=0%3A1&starting-point-node-id=14%3A2">here.</a>

# App Map
<img src="ux-design/App_Map.png"/>
<br><br>

# Wireframe Diagrams 

| UX-Wireframe | Description |
| --- | --- |
| <img src="ux-design/Home.png"/><br><i>Home Page</i>| This is the home page in which the user can view all available rooms in the house and add rooms. In the top right you have a profile icon and the footer contains the navigation bar with all the pages. The house name in the header or "Ravenclaw" represents the house name in which the user had been assigned to. |
| <img src="ux-design/Room_Template.png"/><br><i>Room Template Page</i>| This shows the room and the tasks assigned to the room with a button to take you back to the Home page in which you selected the room. The task bars are buttons that will lead you to the Individual Task Page in which the user can edit/modify tasks. Also the square buttons on the left mark the task as complete or not.|
| <img src="ux-design/Tasks.png"/><br><i> Tasks Page</i>| This collectively shows all the tasks with the task buttons and the checkmark as stated in the previous description. The filter button allows you to filter task based on criterea such as date or room the task is assigned to, if any at all. The sort button allows you to sort in Chronological order to choose most recently due tasks or not. |
| <img src="ux-design/Individual_Task_Page.png"/><br><i> Indiviual Task Page</i>| This shows the task details in which you can modify information relating to the task such as the date or time in which it is due to be completed. |
| <img src="ux-design/Finances.png"/><br><i> Finances Page</i>| This page allows users to communicate and keep track of shared purchases in the living space. |
| <img src="ux-design/Profile.png"/><br><i> Profile Page</i>| This page allows users to edit their profile details. |
| <img src="ux-design/Alerts.png"/><br><i> Alerts Page</i>| This is the page to which the user gets notified of near tasks that they are responsible for and the user is led to this page through the footer or through notification.|
| <img src="ux-design/Settings.png"/><br><i> Settings Page</i>| Allows the user to modify the house details such as name, view whose in their housing group, and log out of their account if needed.|

Commit message:

Updated prototype readm to support new login page and added screenshot highlighting its details in the readme.

UX-DESIGN.md, after:


<h1 align="center">Bayt UX Design</h1>

# Prototype
The Figma prototype link for the Bayt app is <a align="center" href="https://www.figma.com/proto/rs9sNV0nIGotnT7L5qq2jz/Bayt?node-id=178%3A530&scaling=scale-down&page-id=0%3A1&starting-point-node-id=178%3A530&show-proto-sidebar=1">here.</a>

# App Map
<img src="ux-design/App_Map.png"/>
<br><br>

# Wireframe Diagrams 

| UX-Wireframe | Description |
| --- | --- |
| <img src="ux-design/Login.png"/><br><i>Home Page</i>| This is the initial login page, it prompts for users to enter a username and the house code they belong to login rather than a standard password. For now we assume house codes are assigned to appropriate users and this will be addressed in the future.|
| <img src="ux-design/Home.png"/><br><i>Home Page</i>| This is the home page in which the user can view all available rooms in the house and add rooms. In the top right you have a profile icon and the footer contains the navigation bar with all the pages. The house name in the header or "Ravenclaw" represents the house name in which the user had been assigned to. |
| <img src="ux-design/Room_Template.png"/><br><i>Room Template Page</i>| This shows the room and the tasks assigned to the room with a button to take you back to the Home page in which you selected the room. The task bars are buttons that will lead you to the Individual Task Page in which the user can edit/modify tasks. Also the square buttons on the left mark the task as complete or not.|
| <img src="ux-design/Tasks.png"/><br><i> Tasks Page</i>| This collectively shows all the tasks with the task buttons and the checkmark as stated in the previous description. The filter button allows you to filter task based on criterea such as date or room the task is assigned to, if any at all. The sort button allows you to sort in Chronological order to choose most recently due tasks or not. |
| <img src="ux-design/Individual_Task_Page.png"/><br><i> Indiviual Task Page</i>| This shows the task details in which you can modify information relating to the task such as the date or time in which it is due to be completed. |
| <img src="ux-design/Finances.png"/><br><i> Finances Page</i>| This page allows users to communicate and keep track of shared purchases in the living space. |
| <img src="ux-design/Profile.png"/><br><i> Profile Page</i>| This page allows users to edit their profile details. |
| <img src="ux-design/Alerts.png"/><br><i> Alerts Page</i>| This is the page to which the user gets notified of near tasks that they are responsible for and the user is led to this page through the footer or through notification.|
| <img src="ux-design/Settings.png"/><br><i> Settings Page</i>| Allows the user to modify the house details such as name, view whose in their housing group, and log out of their account if needed.|
